

### Coming back and rewatching lecture, will mostly fill in things I don't understand.


Performance:
- Throughput
- Response Time
- (Elapsed Time): 
	- How much time does it take to do this thing
	- Run a program of some sort, and see how much time to complete
	- Ideally, represent what you do on the computer
	- This leads to benchmarks
- Benchmarks drive a field. This is how you sell a machine, machines have been developed just to maximize a benchmark. 
- Report?
	- MIPS (Million Instructions Per Second)
	- MFLOPs  / TerraFLOPS (Floating Point Operations Per Second)
- Ratios? 
- 00, 01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06?
- Make it faster - boils down to CPU equation
	- Make clock faster  <-  tech
	- Get more done each clock  <-  organization
	- Use fewer clocks  <-  compiler
	- $\text{CPU Time} = \text{Instructions per Program} \times \text{Cycles per Instruction} \times \text{Time per Cycle}$
			= instr/prog x cycles/instr x time/cycle
			= time/prog

**Amdahl's Law** - Performance gained by using faster mode limited by amount of time that mode can be used

Why is throughput marketed?
- Technological limitations led us to making transistors smaller, which naturally led to multiple core machines. This makes throughput a natural target.
	- However, this can slow down clock speed and maybe even INCREASE response time.

Turboboost is an intel program that lets you overclock, because its very rare you need all 8 cores. They alternate cores to dissipate heat. 

Gamers overclock because worst case response (adding -1 and 1 for instance) rarely happen, and mistakes don't tend to be that serious (dropping a pixel, etc.)



### Instruction set:
opcode operands

opcode: what to do
operand: what to operate on
	DST = SRC1 op SRC2
1-operand: ACC = ACC + operand
2-operand: Rx = RX + Ry

3-operand inst:
fixed size
	fixed opcode field
Load/Store Iset
Arithmetic only on regs
Load/Store to mem

3 formats:
R-Type: opcode Rd Rs1 Rs2 
I-Type:  opcode Rd Rs1 Imm
J-type: opcode (offset)