---
created:
  - " 12-03-2024 15:25"
tags:
  - Classes
aliases:
---

# ðŸ“— ->  12/03/24: COURSE QUICK REVIEW
---
[Lecture Slide Link]

## ðŸŽ¤ Vocab



## â— Unit and Larger Context
Small summary




## âœ’ï¸ -> Scratch Notes
### Ch.2
Conditional prob, bayes theorem

Bayes Method(ML)
- P(Class | Feature) = P(Feature|Class)P(Class) / P(Feature)


### Ch. 3
E(X) = Long run fraction of outcomes. Mean.
$\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{x_1 + \dots + x_n}{n}$
$x_i$ = ith outcome

$Var(x) = \lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{(x_1-EX)^2 + \dots + (x_n-EX)^2}{n} = E((X-EX)^2) = E(X^2)-(EX)^2$
$Var(x+y) = Var(x) + Var(y) + 2Cov(x,y)$
$E(XY) = E(X)E(Y)$ if independent

### Ch. 4
#### Families of Discrete RVs
- Uniform
- Geometric (EX = 1/p)
- Indicator (EX=p)
- Binomial
- Poisson


### Ch. 7
#### Continuous RVs
$F_x(t) = P(x\le t)=$
$P(a \leq x \leq b) = \int_a^b f_x(t)dt$
PDF: $f_x(t) = \frac{d}{dt}\cdot F_x(t)$. For PDF to exist, $F_x(t)$ must exist and be continuous (differentiable)
$F_x(3) = P(x=1) + P(x=2) + P(x=3)$

$E(X) = \int_A tf_x(t)dt \to E(X) = \sum_{c\in A} cP(x=c)$
Continuous vs Discrete expectation

$Var(X) = \int_A (t-Et)^2 \to Var(X) = E((X-EX)^2)$
$E(X^2) - (E(X))^2$
$E(X^2) = \int_A t^2f_x(t)dt \to E(X) = \sum_{c\in A} c^2P(x=c)$

#### Families
- Uniform, Exp., normal

### Ch. 11
#### Normal Dist
$X \sim N(\mu, \sigma^2)$
$P(x < a) \to P(z < \frac{a-\mu}{\sigma})$
##### CLT
Total of same dist
$T = x_1 + \dots + x_n$
$T \sim N(nE[X], nVar[X])$
$P(T<a) = P(z < \frac{a - nE[X]}{\sqrt{nVar[x]}}$

##### Z-Transformation
$\omega \sim N(m, var)$
$P(w < a) = P(z < \frac{ w - \omega} {\sqrt{Var[x]}}$

##### Sample Average
$\bar{x} = \frac{x_1 + \dots + x_n}{n} \to e$
$P(\bar{x} < a)$
$\bar{x} \sim N(E[\bar{x}] = E[X], \frac{Var(x)}{n})$
$\bar{x} \sim N(E[\bar{x}], \frac{s^2}{n})$
$s^2 = \frac{\sum(x_i - \bar{x})^2}{n} = \frac{1}{n}\sum(x_i)^2 - (\bar{x})^2$
- $s^2$ is *sample variance*
$Var(\bar{x}) = \frac{Var(X)}{n} = \frac{s^2}{n}$
- How does xbar vary? 
	- It varies by the var of population over n


### Ch. 12-13
#### Confidence Interval
$\mu \in \bar{x} \pm z_c \sqrt{Var(sample\_stat)}$
$\mu \in \bar{x} \pm z_c \sqrt{s^2/n}$
$p \in \hat{p} \pm z_c \sqrt{s^2/n}$
$p \in \hat{p} \pm z_c \sqrt{\hat{p}(1-\hat{p})/n}$
$s^2 = \hat{p}(1-\hat{p})$
$\mu_x - \mu_y \in \bar{x} - \bar{y} \pm z_c \sqrt{Var(\bar{x}-\bar{y})}$

#### Hypothesis Testing
Useful when you have a known or asserted statistic
- IE testing whether smokers and non smokers have the same rate of cancer (diff=0)

Sample stat is telling you different story against sample


#### Markov Chains
Hot Dogs vs Hambugers

|     | HD  | HB  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| HD  | .8  | .2  |
| HB  | .4  | .6  |
Property depends on that transitions only dependent on the last state, and not any previous ones (memoryless)

#### K-Means
Randomly Place Center
- Calculatate btw each Home and Center A, Center B
- Place homes in the center they are closer to
- Replace center and repeat

#### Linear Regression
> Goal is to minimize the error from prediction to actual

y is dependent on x, predict y based on x
(1,2), (2,4), (3,6), y = 0 + 2x

$b = \frac{n\sum xy - \sum x \sum y}{n(\sum x^2 - \sum y^2)}$
- Similar to the covariance equation:
	- $Cov(x,y) = E(XY) - E(X)E(Y)$

$a = \frac{\sum y \sum x^2 - \sum x \sum y}{n(\sum x^2 - (\sum x)^2)}$

Future classes will expand on this to cover new conditions:
- Prevent over fitting on the input data
- Use some sort of error function


## ðŸ”— -> Links
### Resources
- Put useful links here


### Connections
- [[_Math]]
