---
created:
  - " 09-26-2024 10:35"
tags:
  - Classes
aliases:
---

# ðŸ“— -> 9/26/24: Course Intro
---
### When lectures is over, add the content as aliases above
[Syllabus]([PSC134MunakataSyllabusFall2024 - Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nyhGDJozEiitDx6G-vxm-pwc6VvX7NqUzitLub9C2rw/edit#heading=h.dohbhtdtlqed))

## ðŸŽ¤ Vocab


## â— Unit and Larger Context
Small summary

## âœ’ï¸ -> Scratch Notes
1. That is, how do our neural systems lead us to think and act -- to perceive the world, attend, understand, learn, remember, read, speak, pursue goals -- in the ways that we do?
> 	On a low biological level, we have neurons and glia that facilitate activation (and by proxy information) to be passed through from neuron to neuron. 
> 	Our lower level systems capture the state of the world through our senses, and process them to make sense of the information. For example, light is captured through the retinas and our visual system receives a pattern of activation that corresponds to the objects we perceive. Depending on this, they will be sent through the sensory pipeline until our brain at some level understands what we are perceiving.
> 	Higher level systems will use our sensory information to guide our decision-making, weighing the environmental information as well as higher level learned patterns. 
1. How confident in what you just wrote?
> 	1-7: 5
2. Why does the answer to Q1 matter to you now or in the future?
> 	Understanding how our brain processes information is critical to knowing how to best handle ourselves, and others. On a personal level, it helps us to get a better grasp on our own decisionmaking, biases, habits, and ability to grow. With others, it can help us to communicate information, understand and sympathize with decisionmaking, and maximize our relationship with them.
> 	Especially in a job like software, undersanding how the brain causes us to act can help to make software understandable and intuitive.  

## ðŸ§ª-> Example
- List examples of where entry contents can fit in a larger context

## ðŸ”— -> Related Word
- Link all related words

